OADP-4058: Adding structure for OADP and 3scale user story (#85994)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/backing-up-the-mysql-database.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

//included in backing-up-and-restoring-3scale-using-oadp.adoc assembly

[id="backing-up-the-mysql-database_{context}"]
= Backing up the mysql database

You can backup the `mysql` database by creating and attaching a persistent volume claim (PVC) to include the dumped data in the specified path.

.Prerequisites

* You have backed up the 3scale operator. 

.Procedure

> . Create a YAML file with the following configurations for adding an additional PVC:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a YAML file with the following configuration for adding an additional PVC:
```

+
.Example ts_pvc.yaml file:
[source,yaml]
----
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: example-claim
  namespace: threescale
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 1Gi
  storageClassName: gp3-csi
  volumeMode: Filesystem
----

> . Create the additional PVC by running the following command: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the additional PVC: 
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f ts_pvc.yml 
----

. Attach the PVC to the system database pod by editing the system database deployment to use the `mysql` dump:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit deployment system-mysql -n threescale
----	

> +

Author: The oc edit command opens the YAML for that deployment resource as mentioned in the step description and it is not a file.

[source,yaml]
----
  volumeMounts:
    - name: example-claim
      mountPath: /var/lib/mysqldump/data
    - name: mysql-storage
      mountPath: /var/lib/mysql/data
    - name: mysql-extra-conf
      mountPath: /etc/my-extra.d
    - name: mysql-main-conf
      mountPath: /etc/my-extra
    ...
      serviceAccount: amp
  volumes:
        - name: example-claim
          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: example-claim <1>
    ...
----

> <1> PVC, which contains the dumped data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> PVC, which contains the dumped data.
```

. Create the following example YAML file to backup the `mysql` database:
+
.Example mysql.yaml file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: velero.io/v1
kind: Backup
metadata:
  name: mysql-backup
  namespace: openshift-adp
spec:
  csiSnapshotTimeout: 10m0s
  defaultVolumesToFsBackup: true
  hooks:
    resources:
    - name: dumpdb
      pre:
      - exec:
          command:
          - /bin/sh
          - -c
          - mysqldump -u $MYSQL_USER --password=$MYSQL_PASSWORD system --no-tablespaces
            > /var/lib/mysqldump/data/dump.sql <1>
          container: system-mysql
          onError: Fail
          timeout: 5m
  includedNamespaces: <2>
  - threescale
  includedResources:
  - deployment
  - pods
  - replicationControllers
  - persistentvolumeclaims
  - persistentvolumes
  itemOperationTimeout: 1h0m0s
  labelSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: 3scale-api-management
      threescale_component_element: mysql
  snapshotMoveData: false
  ttl: 720h0m0s
----

> <1> Data is backed up in this directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> A directory where the data is backed up.
```

<2> The included resources will be backed up.

> . Backup the `mysql` database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Back up the `mysql` database:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <mysql>.yaml
----

.Verification

> * Verify if the `mysql` backup is completed: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify that the `mysql` backup is completed: 
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get backup mysql-backup
----
+
.Example output:
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                  STATUS      CREATED   NAMESPACE    POD                    VOLUME          UPLOADER TYPE   STORAGE LOCATION   AGE
mysql-backup-4g7qn   Completed   30s       threescale   system-mysql-2-9pr44   example-claim   kopia           ts-dpa-1           30s
mysql-backup-smh85   Completed   23s       threescale   system-mysql-2-9pr44   mysql-storage   kopia           ts-dpa-1           30s
----

.Next step

> * Backup the backend Redis database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Back up the back-end Redis database.
```
IBM SG for back-end as an adjective.
